# Chapter 1 of DOET
Page 24 - Seat Adjustment Control from a Mercedes-Benz Automobile.

Figure 1.13 - This is an excellent example of natural mapping. The control is in the shape of the seat itself: the mapping is straightforward. To move the front edge of the seat higher, lift up on the front part of the button. To make the seat back recline, move the button back. Mercedes-Benz automobiles are obviously not everyday things for most people, but the principle doesn't require great expense or wealth. The same principle could be applied to much more common objects.

Page 26 - The Front/Rear Speaker Selector of an Automobile Radio.

Figure 1.14 - Rotating the knob with the pictures of the speaker at either side makes the sound come entirely out of the front speakers (when the knob is all the way over to one side), entirely out of the rear speakers (when the knob is all the way the other way), or equally out of both (when the knob is midway). Which way is front, which rear? You can't tell by looking. While you're at it, imagine trying to manipulate the radio controls while keeping your eyes on the road.

Natural mapping is a design principle that uses physical analogies and cultural standards to create an intuitive and easy-to-understand relationship between a control and its effect. The concept was popularized by cognitive psychologist Don Norman in his book The Design of Everyday Things.

At the end of pages 26-27, the author Don Normal talks about the design and function of a telephone and a car. He mentions that the car’s functions are easier to understand at a fundamental level, more so than those of the telephone. He says the telephone has many advanced functions that a user would probably never figure out do to the complexity of the design. He also mentions that having a visual helps a user discover the functionality of a design more easily. The author states, “there must be a close, natural relationship between the control and it’s function” to describe what natural mapping is. The goal of natural mapping is to reduce cognitive load and the need for memorization or instructions by making the function of a control immediately obvious. Good natural mapping makes a design feel intuitive and effortless, while poor mapping leads to confusion and frustration.
